# CSS Grid: Task Board

In this project, you will create a board of to-do items organized into
columns. All of the HTML and most of the CSS have been written for you,
but the grid property declarations have yet to be added.

In order to complete this project, you must know how to lay out the
structure of a grid’s rows and columns and place items within that grid
using CSS.

We recommend that you review our <a
href="https://www.codecademy.com/courses/learn-intermediate-css/lessons/css-grid-essentials/exercises/introduction-to-grids"
class="e14vpv2g1 gamut-xro1w8-ResetElement-Anchor-AnchorBase e1bhhzie0"
target="_blank">CSS Grid Essentials</a> lesson before beginning.

The premade **index.html** and **style.css** files are displayed for
you. Click <a
href="https://content.codecademy.com/courses/learn-css-grid/project-ii/index.html"
class="e14vpv2g1 gamut-xro1w8-ResetElement-Anchor-AnchorBase e1bhhzie0"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">this link</a> to see the completed
project in another tab. Have fun!

If you get stuck during this project or would like to see an experienced
developer work through it, click “**Get Unstuck**“ to see a **project
walkthrough video**.

[CSS Grid Project Task Board](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJ32N1SRh84)

1\.

We will be focusing on laying out the container `<div>` and the two
card-column `<div>`s within it. Here’s an abbreviated version of those
`<div>`s in **index.html**:

``` html
<div class="container">
    <div class="card-column future-projects">
        ...
    </div>
    <div class="card-column active-projects">
        ...
    </div>
</div>
```

Right now, the task board looks pretty cluttered. In **style.css**,
let’s make the `<div>` with class `container` a grid container so that
we can start to arrange these tasks better.

2\.

That didn’t have any immediate effect, but it allows us to apply grid
properties to the `container` div. Let’s start by giving the
`.container` ruleset three equally sized columns by using the
`grid-template-columns` property.

Note that only 2 of columns will be filled with content at this point.

3\.

Now, let’s add a gap of 20 pixels in between the columns.

4\.

Inside of each card column, there are 5 rows of task cards. We want them
to be arranged neatly within the columns as well, so let’s make each
card column a grid container.

In **style.css**, within the `.card-column` ruleset, add a declaration
that sets the `display` property to `grid`.

5\.

Each card column has a heading above the 5 task cards. We want the
heading to take up `20px` and each task card to take up `100px`.

Inside the `.card-column` ruleset, set the `grid-template-rows` property
to have 1 `20px` row and 5 `100px` rows. Use the `repeat` function to
make your code clean.

6\.

In order to have the task cards spaced evenly in each card, inside
`.card-column`, use the `align-content` property to set an even amount
of vertical space around each card.

7\.

Now we want to add another card column for Completed Projects to keep
track of all of the tasks we’ve already done. Let’s add a third card
column that’s like the other two. We already have our `container` set to
have space for three columns, so you just need to add the HTML.

In **index.html**, uncomment the code for the third card column.

8\.

We expect to complete a lot of projects, but we don’t know how many.
Since those projects will be added as task cards to the Completed
Projects column, it will be helpful to use implicit grid properties
instead of the explicit properties we have been using so far. We know
the first row with the heading should be explicitly `20px`, just as the
other heading rows are. Every additional row, if it exists, should be
implicitly set.

Inside `.card-column`, use the `grid-auto-rows` property to implicitly
set rows to `100px`.

9\.

Good job! Now, feel free to play around with the layout of this site,
using the other CSS properties you’ve learned. Once you’re satisfied
with your work, press the Next Button to move on.

**Reference**: https://www.codecademy.com/journeys/full-stack-engineer/paths/fscj-22-web-development-foundations/tracks/fscj-22-making-a-website-responsive/modules/wdcp-22-learn-css-grid-549234ef-7622-479b-8d5d-0b4c919983b8/projects/css-grid-task-board
